Contracts2 (#2006)
sodadata/soda-core: soda/contracts/docs/README.md

# Implementing data contracts

Data Contracts are the best tool to prevent data issues from occurring. Data contracts
drives data producers to take ownership of the contract and the data.  A contract contains
information like the owner, schema, arrival times, data quality checks and is used for the
following use cases.

1) Source of information for data discovery tools
2) Verify the contract on new data and alert the producer if not compliant
3) Verify the contract on pipeline code changes and alert the producer if not compliant

Use contracts if you want to prevent data issues. It's a tool used by the producer, which
are the technical engineering team responsible for the pipeline component producing the data.

> It's a technical component used for encapsulation in the software engineering sense. A data

Reviewer: encapsulation of what? "encapsulation of producing data" perhaps?

Author: Updated the description to:

> Data contracts are a solution used for applying encapsulation in the software engineering sense to data pipeline components. A data contract specifies the interface of the software component producing the data. 

Better?

contract specifies the interface of the software component producing the data.  The interface
is the dataset that can be queried with SQL.  It can be used to divide and conquer
the big monolithic data pipelines into manageable pipeline components.

Contracts will significantly reduce the number of data issues that occur and it will
help the diagnostic process.

## 1) Writing contract YAML files

> Prerequisites: To write contract YAML files, you will need:
> * A YAML text editor
> * Optional: a local development environment to test contract YAML files
> * Optional: a git repository to version control your contract YAML file

See chapter [writing contract  YAML files](01_writing_contract_yaml_files/README.md) on how to write schema and
other data quality checks in Soda contract YAML files

## 2) Choose a way to verify a contract

> Prerequisites.  To verify a contract, you need:
> * A Soda contract YAML file
> * All connection details to your SQL engine like Snowflake or postgres

Choose the most way for you to verify your contract. The solutions to verifying a contract
below can be used to build your workflow for:
* Verifying a contract in production (when new data arrives)

> * Verifying a contract in CI/CD (when pipeline code changes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Verifying a contract in CI/CD (when data producing pipeline code changes)
```

Author: Rephrased

* Verifying a contract on a fixed time schedule (not recommended)

To make a choice, consider what triggers execution of your contract verification and the in what

> environment will it run?  Eg A shell script in your local development environment using the Soda

Reviewer: ```suggestion
environment will it run? For example a shell script in your local development environment using the Soda
```

contract API in a Python virtual environment, an Airflow operator in a DAG that is executed, a
GitHub commit, etc?

* [Verifying a contract in Python](02_verifying_a_contract_in_python/README.md):
  This is the most basic, common and versatile way to verify a contract.  In fact, all other ways below

>   are based on this Python library approach.  To use our Soda Contracts Python library and API you
>   have to know Python like setting up a Python virtual environment and Python library dependencies.

Reviewer: seems like a bit too harsh on prerequsities

```suggestion
  are based on this Python library approach.  To use our Soda Contracts Python library and API you
  need to have the ability to set up a Python virtual environment and Python library dependencies.
```

  Instructions are provided.

* [Verifying a contract using docker (Roadmap)](03_verifying_a_contract_using_docker/README.md):
  If you know how to work with docker containers, then the Soda contract docker container removes the
  hassle of setting up the virtual environment and ensuring that the versions of all the libraries are
  compatible.

* [Verifying contracts in an Airflow DAG (Roadmap)](04_verifying_a_contract_in_an_airflow_dag/README.md):
  If you want to run a contract verification in an Airflow DAG, these instructions show how you can add
  an operator to your Airflow DAG.

* [Verifying a contract using GitHub action (Roadmap)](05_verifying_a_contract_as_a_github_action/README.md):
  If you want to run a contract verification as part of you CI/CD workflow in GitHub actions after each
  commit on a PR, then check out this Soda github actions support.

* [Verifying contracts using Soda Agent (Roadmap)](06_verifying_contracts_using_soda_cloud_agent/README.md):
  Running contract verification on a the Soda Agent managed service is the easiest.  You can use an API
  and don't have to manage contract verification.

> ## 3) Enable contract check contributions

Reviewer: This section goes away from generic OSS approach to Cloud a bit too quick imo, I would propose we first sell the idea of contribution, then stop at people committing different files into repositories etc, then go to Cloud as a remedy to that pain

Author: Well no.  This is part of the task based approach Janet started.  It's the last step of a high level set of tasks when implementing data contracts.  The last step is to enable contributions from Soda Cloud.  

But we should only document this when it's ready.  So it will be removed here until it's done.
